README.md, before:

talk2me
=======

talk2me is a WebSocket chat client and server written in JavaScript, HTML, CSS and PHP. The goal is to produce a simple, secure and anonymous chat client. The only data stored is your username and room in memory on the server and is destroyed on disconnect.

Users connecting to rooms can additionally supply a secret to encrypt messages. Members of the room must also know the secret to decrypt messages. This encryption is performed on the client-side using the asmcrypt.js library.

View a demo here (usually a few revisions behind): [https://vimeo.com/94716053](https://vimeo.com/94716053)

Features
========

* Secure WebSockets for instant chat
* Rooms with multiple users
* Client-side encryption
* Status. e.g. Free, Away, Busy, Idle, ...
* Slash commands similar to IRC. Implement `CommandPlugin` for custom slash commands. e.g. /help
* User is typing notification.
* Growl message for things like: status changes, sign on, sign off, user is typing, ...
* Message filtered through a basic wiki like engine. e.g. [http://www.example.com] is converted into a clickable hyperlink.

INSTALL
=======

Install composer dependencies.

    composer.phar install

Run chat server.

    php bin/chat-server.php

Copy `www/cdn/js/example.config.js` to `www/cdn/js/config.js` and update the `webSocketUrl` and other parameters as desired.

Open `www/index.html` in a browser, login, and begin chatting.

Persistent Chat Rooms
=====================

Althought this was never in the original plans for talk2me it is quite handy. Persistent chat rooms are not enabled by default and you are never required when entering any room. If you click the checkbox on the login page to create or join a persistent chat room all of your messages will be logged. If you do not check the box none of your messages will be logged. You can tell a user is logging there messages when an exclamation mark is appended to their username. e.g. `@foobar!`

To enable persistent chat rooms you must create a MySQL database, import `sql/create-schema.sql` and edit these configuration files. Make sure both set `allowPersistentRooms` to `true`.

`bin/example.config.php`

    $mysqlServer = "127.0.0.1";
    $mysqlPort = "3306";
    $mysqlUsername = "root";
    $mysqlPassword = "pass";
    $mysqlDatabase = "talk2me";
    $allowPersistentRooms = true;

`www/cdn/js/example.config.js`

    var allowPersistentRooms = true;

Setup Stunnel for SSL encryption for secure web sockets
========================================================

The `www/cdn/js/example.config.js` file defaults to the `ws://` protocol on port 8880.

The port used in `bin/example.config.php` and `www/cdn/js/example.config.js` are both 8880.

When you switch to using a secure websocket with protocol `wss://` you will need to change the port in `www/cdn/js/example.config.js` to 8443 if using the stunnel configuration below. On many machines edit `/etc/stunnel/stunnel.conf` and add the following. You'll need to generate a certificate if you don't have one. You can get free SSL certificates from sites like startssl.com.

    cert = /etc/apache2/ssl/cert.pem

    [talktome]
    accept = YOUR_PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS:8443
    connect = 127.0.0.1:8880

Restart stunnel.

USAGE
=====

You can automatically login by appending a HASH to the URL. Enter any room name and username.

e.g. https://www.example.com/talk2me/#room@username

Message Filtering (Wiki like syntax)
====================================

Embed YouTube videos.

    {youtube}https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mgMn68Rgva0{/youtube}
    
Insert image.

    {http://www.example.com/image.jpg}

Insert hyper link with custom text.

    [http://www.example.com | This is a link]

Insert a hyper link.

    [http://www.example.com]

Bold text.

    '''make me bold'''

Italic text.

    ''make me italic''

Strikethrough text.

    {-strike me-}

Monospace code font.

    @@This will be monospace@@

Create a line break. i.e. &lt;br /&gt;

    {br}

COMMAND PLUGIN
==============

To enable the command plugin copy `src/Talk2Me/example.CommandPlugin.php` to `src/Talk2Me/CommandPlugin.php`.

This plugin contains a single function `execute()` that is called for every message handled. If the message being
sent contains a command it will be parsed and handled and most likely should return immediately. If it does not
return the message will be sent to clients connected to the room.

In the example below if you send the message `/samplecommand` only you will receive a message back saying `Executing sample command`.

You must `return true` if a command was executed and you only want to send the message to `$from`.

The `execute()` function should `return false` in all other cases.

    public function execute($from, $json, $t) {
        if (preg_match("/\/samplecommand/", $json->msg)) {
            $o = array("status"=>"ok", "a"=>"message", "t"=>$t,
                    "msg"=>"Executing sample command");
            $from->send(json_encode($o));
        }
        return true;
    }

You can have any number of command that do just about anything you want. For example you might want a command such as `/weather 90210` that
will return the current forecast.

You could even implement a whole slew of admin commands. e.g. `/admin <password> broadcast-all '<message to send to all connected clients on server>'`

Commit message:

Added a run script so that on errors the chat server attempts to restart.

README.md, after:

talk2me
=======

talk2me is a WebSocket chat client and server written in JavaScript, HTML, CSS and PHP. The goal is to produce a simple, secure and anonymous chat client. The only data stored is your username and room in memory on the server and is destroyed on disconnect.

Users connecting to rooms can additionally supply a secret to encrypt messages. Members of the room must also know the secret to decrypt messages. This encryption is performed on the client-side using the asmcrypt.js library.

View a demo here (usually a few revisions behind): [https://vimeo.com/94716053](https://vimeo.com/94716053)

Features
========

* Secure WebSockets for instant chat
* Rooms with multiple users
* Client-side encryption
* Status. e.g. Free, Away, Busy, Idle, ...
* Slash commands similar to IRC. Implement `CommandPlugin` for custom slash commands. e.g. /help
* User is typing notification.
* Growl message for things like: status changes, sign on, sign off, user is typing, ...
* Message filtered through a basic wiki like engine. e.g. [http://www.example.com] is converted into a clickable hyperlink.

INSTALL
=======

Install composer dependencies.

    composer.phar install

Run chat server. Edit the `bindir` variable to point to the `bin` directory in the file `bin/run.sh`. Then execute the `bin/run.sh` script.

    cd /path/to/talk2me
    bin/run.sh

Copy `www/cdn/js/example.config.js` to `www/cdn/js/config.js` and update the `webSocketUrl` and other parameters as desired.

Open `www/index.html` in a browser, login, and begin chatting.

Persistent Chat Rooms
=====================

Althought this was never in the original plans for talk2me it is quite handy. Persistent chat rooms are not enabled by default and you are never required when entering any room. If you click the checkbox on the login page to create or join a persistent chat room all of your messages will be logged. If you do not check the box none of your messages will be logged. You can tell a user is logging there messages when an exclamation mark is appended to their username. e.g. `@foobar!`

To enable persistent chat rooms you must create a MySQL database, import `sql/create-schema.sql` and edit these configuration files. Make sure both set `allowPersistentRooms` to `true`.

`bin/example.config.php`

    $mysqlServer = "127.0.0.1";
    $mysqlPort = "3306";
    $mysqlUsername = "root";
    $mysqlPassword = "pass";
    $mysqlDatabase = "talk2me";
    $allowPersistentRooms = true;

`www/cdn/js/example.config.js`

    var allowPersistentRooms = true;

Setup Stunnel for SSL encryption for secure web sockets
========================================================

The `www/cdn/js/example.config.js` file defaults to the `ws://` protocol on port 8880.

The port used in `bin/example.config.php` and `www/cdn/js/example.config.js` are both 8880.

When you switch to using a secure websocket with protocol `wss://` you will need to change the port in `www/cdn/js/example.config.js` to 8443 if using the stunnel configuration below. On many machines edit `/etc/stunnel/stunnel.conf` and add the following. You'll need to generate a certificate if you don't have one. You can get free SSL certificates from sites like startssl.com.

    cert = /etc/apache2/ssl/cert.pem

    [talktome]
    accept = YOUR_PUBLIC_IP_ADDRESS:8443
    connect = 127.0.0.1:8880

Restart stunnel.

USAGE
=====

You can automatically login by appending a HASH to the URL. Enter any room name and username.

e.g. https://www.example.com/talk2me/#room@username

Message Filtering (Wiki like syntax)
====================================

Embed YouTube videos.

    {youtube}https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mgMn68Rgva0{/youtube}
    
Insert image.

    {http://www.example.com/image.jpg}

Insert hyper link with custom text.

    [http://www.example.com | This is a link]

Insert a hyper link.

    [http://www.example.com]

Bold text.

    '''make me bold'''

Italic text.

    ''make me italic''

Strikethrough text.

    {-strike me-}

Monospace code font.

    @@This will be monospace@@

Create a line break. i.e. &lt;br /&gt;

    {br}

COMMAND PLUGIN
==============

To enable the command plugin copy `src/Talk2Me/example.CommandPlugin.php` to `src/Talk2Me/CommandPlugin.php`.

This plugin contains a single function `execute()` that is called for every message handled. If the message being
sent contains a command it will be parsed and handled and most likely should return immediately. If it does not
return the message will be sent to clients connected to the room.

In the example below if you send the message `/samplecommand` only you will receive a message back saying `Executing sample command`.

You must `return true` if a command was executed and you only want to send the message to `$from`.

The `execute()` function should `return false` in all other cases.

    public function execute($from, $json, $t) {
        if (preg_match("/\/samplecommand/", $json->msg)) {
            $o = array("status"=>"ok", "a"=>"message", "t"=>$t,
                    "msg"=>"Executing sample command");
            $from->send(json_encode($o));
        }
        return true;
    }

You can have any number of command that do just about anything you want. For example you might want a command such as `/weather 90210` that
will return the current forecast.

You could even implement a whole slew of admin commands. e.g. `/admin <password> broadcast-all '<message to send to all connected clients on server>'`
